# Edyoda---Assignments
Interview Questions On Data Types


1.What are Data Types?
answer : A data type is a set of values and a set of operations defined on data. An implementation of a data type is an expression of data and operations in terms of a specific programming language such as Java, C ++, or Python.

2.Name four of the main data types in Python
answer: Numbers, strings, lists, dictionaries, tuples, files, and sets are generally considered the main types of data. Types, None, and Booleans are sometimes also classified this way.

3.What does immutable mean and what three types of Python core data types are considered immutable?
answer : An immutable data type is a type of object which cannot be modified after its creation. Numbers, strings, and tuples in Python fall into this category. Although you cannot modify an immutable object in place, you can always create a new one by running an expression.

4.What does sequence mean and which three types of data fall into this category?
answer: A sequence data type is a collection of objects ordered by a specific position. In Python, Strings, lists, and tuples are the data types based on sequences. The Sequences share common sequence operations, such as indexing, concatenation, and slicing, but also have type-specific method calls.

5.What does mapping mean and what kind of data type is based on mapping?
answer: The term mapping refers to an object that maps keys to associated values. The Python dictionary is the only type of mapping in the base typeset. Mappings do not maintain any left-to-right position order; they support access to stored data by key, as well as type-specific method calls.

6.Which Python's built-in functions returns the type of the object that was passed to it as a single argument?
answer : type( ) returns the type of an object. The return value is a type object and generally the same object as returned by object.__class__.

7.Which Python objects is immutable?
answer : str is immutable

8.What would be the result of executing the following code?
print(True*2)

answer: In python, True is boolean (notice the uppercase T) and True evaluates to 1 (False evaluates to 0) and hence 1 multiplied by 2 is 2

9.After executing the following line of code, what would be the data type of poll_data
poll_data = 7,

answer: In python, tuple does not need brackets/parentheses if there are more than one elements in the assignment. one-element tuples need a comma to distinguish from a numeric data element.

10.After executing the following line of code, what would be the data type of obj_data
obj_data = ( )

answer: In python, empty tuple by using ( ) or tuple constructor tuple( )

11.What code would turn the string “1” into an integer?

  answer:  int("1")

12.What do we call it when we convert from one data type to another?
     
answer:   casting

13.What is the datatype of np.nan?
answer: Float

14.What values can the Boolean data type hold?
answer: True or False values

15. What is the result of the following code segment: int(True)
answer: 1
Explanation : When you cast a boolean True to an integer you get a 1

16. What do you call a value that doesn’t have decimal values?

answer: An integer

17. What do you call a value that does have decimal values?

answer: A float

18. What data type can only have either a value of True or False?

answer: A boolean

19.  What character begins a single line comment?

answer. #

20.  What is the type of the following "7.1"

answer:str

Explanation: The type is string





















